pinning service api
is something we've been working for uh
the past few weeks
uh to sort of like create a generic spec
a very minimal spec that multiple uh
parties and actors in our ipfs ecosystem
can agree on
both on the service side and the client
side
to facilitate the very basic persistence
um
more or less you can think about this uh
as a minimum
valuable product to enable something
like
remote pinning so you just like district
mentioned
you got your laptop you import data to
ipfs
but what happens when you close your
laptop and someone else wants to
access the data when your laptop is
closed or your server is temporarily
offline you want to persist data
somewhere else
so there's at least one seed provider
data provider so this is where pinning
service api spec
comes in it's a very basic open api spec
which
um like
service providers can implement uh you
can it's
only about providing a cid that you want
to persist
and getting the status is it ongoing is
it cute um
that's it it does not include
importing to ipfs it does not include
user space management it's just one a
very small generic spec that you can
implement and there's a ipfs pinning
service api spec repo if you want to
learn
more details about this there's a
specification which is
in the yaml format it's open api
3.0 i believe and there is a human
readable documentation
uh that you can uh look at it's
rendered from that yaml file and just to
very briefly show you how simple this
api is you got
a pin object which is just a basic
representation of the stuff that you
want to pin
it's a cid you can optionally provide a
list of known sources to speed up data
transfer and
additional metadata which is also
optional and then you got
in response or for initial pin
operation or maybe later you want to
check status
you got this pin status response where
you got the id of
pinning operation status where this was
created
and then you got a list of providers
provided by the pinning service
themselves um those new multi-others
will be
providing data your data to the network
and of course additional metadata
um yep so the list of operations is very
short
you list pins add pin uh you can
read pin status modify it or remove it
that's it uh just to highlight
that it's not just a very abstract thing
that will be implemented by services uh
we will
uh introduce a first uh
uh it will be introduced into our gui
applications so if you install
a ipfs desktop or you run web ui
on the settings screen there will be
option to add a service
a remote service this is just a mockup
but it will look more or less like this
it could be something custom or it could
be one of
well-known already existing players
maybe someone new
maybe your own thing that you created
and you will be able to add pinning
service to your ipfs node
and redo remote pinning and that remote
pinning will not only work in the gui
application like ipfs desktop you
will be able to use the same pinning
service
from the command line so if you just use
go ipfs and don't use
ipfs desktop you still will be able
to benefit from this spec uh so it's a
very
small spec and it's very early but we
are closing
uh it's effectively done we'll probably
we
may rename a field or two but more or
less
it is pretty stable so if you are
interested in this
uh just uh visit links which i will
paste
on the chat shortly and i believe that's
it